Notes on t-bast's route blinding proposal (#1)
calvinrzachman/bolts: 04-onion-routing.md

    - `total_fee_base_msat(n+1) = (fee_base_msat(n+1) * 1000000 + total_fee_base_msat(n) * (1000000 + fee_proportional_millionths(n+1)) + 1000000 - 1) / 1000000`
    - `total_fee_proportional_millionths(n+1) = ((total_fee_proportional_millionths(n) + fee_proportional_millionths(n+1)) * 1000000 + total_fee_proportional_millionths(n) * fee_proportional_millionths(n+1) + 1000000 - 1) / 1000000`
  - MUST create the `encrypted_recipient_data` from the `encrypted_data_tlv` as required in [Route Blinding](#route-blinding).

The writer of `tlv_payload`:

  - Unless `node_announcement`, `init` message or the [BOLT #11](11-payment-encoding.md#tagged-fields) offers feature `var_onion_optin`:
    - MUST use the legacy payload format instead.
  - For every node inside a blinded route:
    - MUST include the `encrypted_recipient_data` provided by the recipient
    - For the first node in the blinded route:
      - MUST include the `blinding_point` provided by the recipient in `current_blinding_point`
    - If it is the final node:
      - MUST include `amt_to_forward` and `outgoing_cltv_value`.
      - MUST include `total_amount_msat` when using `basic_mpp`.

>     - MUST NOT include any other tlv field.

Author: Does the introduction node receive an amount in the onion?

Author: Also is this something that intermediate hops MUST validate was done? Is the privacy offered by route blinding degraded if this is not done? One could make the argument that it makes little sense for sender and intermediate hops to do any checking to help with recipient anonymity.

Author: I think the introduction node receives an amount in `UpdateAddHTLC`, does NOT receive an amount to forward in the onion, and computes the amount to be forwarded using `payment_relay`.

Author: Answered in spec PR

  - For every node outside of a blinded route:
    - MUST include `amt_to_forward` and `outgoing_cltv_value`.
    - For every non-final node:
      - MUST include `short_channel_id`
      - MUST NOT include `payment_data`
    - For the final node:
      - MUST NOT include `short_channel_id`
      - if the recipient provided `payment_secret`:
        - MUST include `payment_data`
        - MUST set `payment_secret` to the one provided
        - MUST set `total_msat` to the total amount it will send
      - if the recipient provided `payment_metadata`:
        - MUST include `payment_metadata` with every HTLC
        - MUST not apply any limits to the size of `payment_metadata` except the limits implied by the fixed onion size

> The reader:

Author: If we wanted to be spell this out as thoroughly as possible we might also differentiate between the reading of the top level onion TLV payload and reading of the route blinding TLV payload. The current draft combines elements of both.

  - If `encrypted_recipient_data` is present:
    - If `blinding_point` is set in the incoming `update_add_htlc`:
      - MUST return an error if `current_blinding_point` is present.
      - MUST use that `blinding_point` as the blinding point for decryption.
    - Otherwise:
      - MUST return an error if `current_blinding_point` is not present.
      - MUST use that `current_blinding_point` as the blinding point for decryption.
      - SHOULD add a random delay before returning errors.
    - MUST return an error if `encrypted_recipient_data` does not decrypt using the
      blinding point as described in [Route Blinding](#route-blinding).
    - If `payment_constraints` is present:
      - MUST return an error if:
        - the expiry is greater than `encrypted_recipient_data.payment_constraints.max_cltv_expiry`.

>         - the amount is below `encrypted_recipient_data.payment_constraints.htlc_minimum_msat`.

Author: Question on where validation should be enforced: Are `expiry` and `amount` the values on the incoming `UpdateAddHTLC` message or the values we compute using the `payment_relay` information?

Author: Answered in spec PR.

    - If `allowed_features` is missing:
      - MUST process the message as if it were present and contained an empty array.
    - If `allowed_features` is present:
      - MUST return an error if:
        - `encrypted_recipient_data.allowed_features.features` contains an unknown feature bit (even if it is odd).
        - the payment uses a feature not included in `encrypted_recipient_data.allowed_features.features`.
    - If it not the final node:
      - MUST return an error if the payload contains other tlv fields than `encrypted_recipient_data` and `current_blinding_point`.

>       - MUST return an error if `encrypted_recipient_data` does not contain either `short_channel_id` or `next_node_id`.

Author: Would it be worth making the process of distinguishing between final & intermediate nodes explicit? I find that, for `readers`, distinctions like “if it is/is not the final node” are a bit slippery without defining the method by which such a determination should even be made in the first place (`writers` know inherently the final node in a route they create). How does one determine if they are the final node in a route? For normal hops this seems to be based off whether there is a `short_channel_id` to use in forwarding. 

One might guess that, for a blinded hop, a lack of both `short_channel_id` *and* `next_node_id` *in the route blinding TLV payload* is what *defines* the final node. If that is indeed what defines a final node, then one cannot enforce a statement like "if a hop is not the final node, then it MUST have scid or next node ID" as that is the very criteria which a reader's validation code would use to make the distinction in the first place. Consider: There is no statement in this document like "If a normal hop is the final node , then it MUST contain short_channel_id" because the presence of `short_channel_id` in the top level onion TLV payload has historically been how one defines the final node.

How are we to define a final node if not the above? Can the determination of which is the final node be made by looking at the route blinding TLV payload in isolation? Or must the decision be made using *both* top level onion TLV and route blinding TLV payloads?

Author: *NOTE*: We now have validation to do across two levels of TLV payloads (top level onion TLV payload & route blinding TLV payload) and the contents of the `UpdateAddHTLC` message. What is present in one payload effects our expectation of what is present in the other payload. As a result, we will likely need to validate the payloads together, which means waiting until AFTER the route blinding payload is decrypted.

Author: DEFINITION: A *final node*: `encrypted_data_tlv` contains ***neither*** `short_channel_id` nor `next_node_id`.
DEFINITION: A *non-final* node: `encrypted_data_tlv` contains either `short_channel_id` or `next_node_id`
```suggestion
The reader of `tlv_payload`:

    - If it is the final node (see definition):
      ...   
    - If it not the final node:
      ...   

### Route Blinding
  ...
#### Requirements
  ...
The writer of `encrypted_data_tlv`:
 - If it is the final node:
    - MUST NOT include neither `short_channel_id` nor `next_node_id` (by definition)
    ... (other non definition related criteria to enforce)
    
 - If it not the final node:
     - MUST include either `short_channel_id` or `next_node_id` (by definition)
     ... (other non definition related criteria to enforce)
  
The reader of `encrypted_data_tlv`:
 - If it is the final node (see definition):
    ... (non definition related criteria to enforce)
 - If it not the final node:
    ... (non definition related criteria to enforce)
```

Author: Another candidate could be the triple of (no scid, no next_node_id, path_id)

Author: What characterizes the “introduction node”?

- Does NOT receive the blinding point via UpdateAddHTLC TLV extension.
	- pd.BlindingPoint == nil
- Decrypts the onion using its persistent node ID public key.
- Receives ephemeral blinding point in top level TLV onion payload.
	- payload.BlindingPoint != nil

Both introduction node and forwarding nodes need to decrypt a route blinding TLV payload.

Author: I suppose one could look to the writer's requirement [here](https://github.com/lightning/bolts/pull/765/files#diff-ad65f0beaac5cef88f5fd7a8b9ca36cbc5a790f4815b4b50b9ea794a55aaf012R305-R306) for a potential definition.

Author: Answered in Spec PR. Interesting, I think LND may have strayed from making that decision based off its sphinx implementation encountering an all-zero onion HMAC, to instead checking for the presence of `short_channel_id` (perhaps these were functionally equivalent in practice). I expect this will need updating now that scid need not be set for blinded hops.

blinded route provided by the recipient. The sender includes the encrypted
blobs in the corresponding onion payloads: they allow nodes in the blinded
part of the route to "unblind" the next node and correctly forward the packet.

Note that there are two ways for the sender to reach the introduction
point: one is to create a normal (unblinded) payment, and place the
initial blinding point in `current_blinding_point` along with the
`encrypted_data` in the onion payload for the introduction point to
start the blinded path. The second way is to create a blinded path to
the introduction point, set `next_blinding_override` inside the
`encrypted_data_tlv` on the hop prior to the introduction point to the
initial blinding point, and have it sent to the introduction node.

The `encrypted_data` is a TLV stream, encrypted for a given blinded node, that
may contain the following TLV fields:

1. `tlv_stream`: `encrypted_data_tlv`
2. types:
    1. type: 1 (`padding`)
    2. data:
        * [`...*byte`:`padding`]
    1. type: 2 (`short_channel_id`)
    2. data:
        * [`short_channel_id`:`short_channel_id`]
    1. type: 4 (`next_node_id`)
    2. data:

>         * [`point`:`node_id`]

Author: Should we add an explicit requirement below that writers MUST include one of these two fields for non-final nodes or is that too obvious to mention?
